+++
categories = ["Blog"]
date = "2015-07-09T20:17:27-05:00"
hero = "default.jpg"
title = "Three Weeks in Cuba"
draft = true
+++

When I got to the airport and found the Cubana Air booth, a man approached me from behind and asked, "are you flying with this airline? Fuck these guys. My flight was delayed 6 hours and they lost my bag for three days. I literally just got my bag back." *Whatever*, I thought. Mistakes happen, and it's not the first time I've heard of an airline losing a bag.

I got in the other line to get my real boarding ticket and immediately one of the workers says, "Attention everyone, the plane is delayed four hours." *Hmmm, I am **not** checking a bag*, I think.

The flight ended up being delayed six hours, just like the guy said his was. I'm guessing they lost someone's bag too, but not mine! It was worth losing my sunscreen in security (nothing gets past these guys anymore, they also found my butter knife that I forgot I had).

I met a girl named Laura just before the flight left and we decided to split a cab. We then ended up meeting three other couples and figured that we could split a cab 8 ways. Laura decided to stay at the hostel I was staying at, and though the other couples were looking for a place to stay too, there wasn't room, so they got back in the cab in search for a Casa Particular. Casa Particulares are like bed and breakfasts. Someone has an extra room in their house, so they rent it out to tourists.

Because of the delayed flight it was 2am by the time we got to the hostel. But there we were, in Cuba! I was so excited to be where I was.

## Havana

The capital of Cuba is unlike any other I've ever been to. Obviously, we were expecting to see plenty of old cars. And we weren't surprised in that regard. There *really are* cars from the 50s everywhere. They say that Cuba is the biggest car show in the world, and it's outside! But moreso than the cars, the buildings and the streets have a distinct vibe to them. People just roam the streets. The buildings are often dilapidated, but beautiful in their own way.

The first thing we wanted to do was rent bikes and go all over the city to get the lay of the land. I got a tip on where to rent some bikes from my Dutch friend Daniel, so we headed there. When we were close to the spot, a man started talking to me from his doorway. After a few minutes of talking he invited us into his house. Then before we knew it we were drinking rum with him and he was telling us everything we could ever want about Cuba.

*That* is why I travel. Sitting in local's house and getting to know their culture over a stiff glass of Cuba's finest. He even gave us a tour his entire house. We sat in his living room and talked about Cuba, America, anything and everything, for hours. I asked him about buying cigars and he sent a friend out to get a box. I ended up buying it from him. I'm not sure if I got completely ripped off or not, but oh well. He didn't even want anything in return. He was just happy to talk to some travelers.

We spent so much time at Luis' house that we didn't even have time to rent a bike afterwards. Back at the hostel, we met a couple of Dutch girls, and after some drinks we all went to a club called La Gruta (The Cave) for some salsa dancing. There were some really phenomenal dancers there. And at one point, there was a salsa show on the stage, with almost 10 different dances and a host of different dancers. Sometimes 10 people were performing a choreographed dance, other times two people had the stage to themselves. It was amazing. After it ended, everyone else in the audience went back to dancing and it turned back into a salsa dance club. We took a cab back to the hostel in an old 50s car turned into a taxi. It was absolutely surreal. Sitting in the backseat looking out the windows at this ancient town, I felt like I was watching a movie. I couldn't believe this was just another day in my life, but I was loving it.

The next day we again went to go rent bikes. I asked around at where I thought they should be, and a guy offered to help me find some. So we walked around with him as he asked almost everyone we encountered in the streets. It was like he knew everyone. I asked him and he said he and most everyone else spend almost all of their time in the streets--everyone knows everyone. In our search we even met back up with Luis, and once again we were back in his living room talking, while we waited for the other guy to find some bikes. It was unbelievable how helpful everyone was. After 30 minutes though, the guy came back and said he couldn't find any, and off he went. He didn't want a tip for his help or anything--he was just glad to help out some fellow people.

The day continued on similarly. We couldn't walk for a minute in the street without someone approaching us to talk. Admittedly, most were bike taxi drivers who wanted to take us around the town. But it was like everyone wanted to talk with us. Which is how the next unfortunate story happened:

As we were walking in Habana Vieja, a woman stopped us to talk, and offered to show us where Che Gevarra lived, which was now apparently a bar. We stopped in and had a drink called Che Gevarra. The lady was so nice, and she ended up giving me a cigar and giving Laura a 3 peso bill that had Che on it as presents. I figured she was going to hit us up for money, when she said, "I do have a favor I want to ask of you, but it's not money." Okay... listening. "I hate a seven year old daughter, and I want to buy milk for her. But locals can't buy milk, only tourists can. Would you mind buying it for me?" That might sound strange to you, but it's actually true that certain things locals can't buy and tourists can. "Of course!" I replied. So we walk to the store that's a block a two away, and the cashier quotes a price of 40 CUC (about $40). And she wanted us to pay for it all. What?! No way were we going to buy $40 worth of powdered milk. The lady got mad. Laura offered the idea that we could buy 1/4 of it, or one bag. The cashier said we couldn't buy one bag because it's not a full ration. I immediately told them I didn't believe them. By this time Laura had already given her 10 CUC, but the cashier wouldn't accept $10 for one bag. I wanted to just take back the money and get out of there, but I couldn't just snatch the money from her hands. I also didn't want to just leave her with the money. The only reason I agreed to do this was because we weren't giving her money--we were getting her milk. I asked the cashier if he would take 15 CUC for two bags and he agreed, so I handed over another 5 and that was that.

The whole thing was obviously fishy and I knew we had been cheated. But I told myself, "at least she actually received the milk, not our money." But then I realized, she probably had a deal with the guy at the store. She brings in stupid tourists, they pull that routine, exchange the milk, and then later she brings back the milk and they split the money. Okay, I don't know if that's true, but it wouldn't surprise me. I felt like shit for being so easily duped.

The rest of the day people kept trying to talk to us and I wasn't in the mood. We also learned of another scam that people run. They kept telling us that that day was a music festival, and even had a name, etc. Then they bring you to a bar with live music and have you buy them drinks. We almost fell for it once, and when a boyfriend and girlfriend led us to a bar and we sat down, I could tell that something wasn't right. I told him I didn't want to drink anything. He replied that Laura and I could share a drink. I said that we really didn't want anything, and that maybe we would come back later. After he realized that we weren't going to be ordering drinks, he and his girlfriend just up and left with barely saying a goodbye. They obviously brought us there to get free drinks.

After both of those experiences I started to become less open to strangers talking to me. The afternoon hanging out with Luis the day before made me feel like people were good and just wanted to have an enjoyable time talking. Then my naivety was shattered and I started to be annoyed every time someone tried to talk to us.

*But*, on our walk home that night, an old man in a cafeteria got our attention and invited us in for a beer. I wasn't in the mood but for whatever reason we went in. His name was Marco and he was in his 60s. He spoke English with us. It wasn't the best, but I could tell he just wanted to practice it, so I didn't bother speaking any Spanish. He restored my hope in strangers. He just wanted to have some beers with some foreigners. He bought the first round and we got the next. I'm glad we stopped in and talked with him, especially after the rather awful experience with the milk lady.
